README.md, before:

# HassMic (The App)

This is the HassMic app, an Android application designed to run on devices
acting as Home Assistant voice assistant satellites.

It is meant to pair with the [HassMic
Integration](http://github.com/jeffc/hassmic-integration).

[**Latest dev commit APK**](https://f001.backblazeb2.com/file/jeffcooper-public-bucket/hassmic-artifacts/by-branch/hassmic-dev.apk) (no guarantee of functionality, takes about 10 minutes from commit time to availability)

It is currently in active development and probably has lots of bugs. Some
highlights:

-   Automatically starting on Android 12+ fails in an annoying way: the service
    auto-starts, but can't access the microphone. This is a security feature
    added to Android that I don't have a great solution for (no auto-start
    services can access the microphone unless they also start a UI).
-   There's not really a "UI" to speak of. Opening the app gives some diagnostic
    information and a single toggle switch. You **must** enable running in the
    background, since that's where all the work happens. If running in the
    background isn't enabled, the app does nothing.

## License

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-shield]][cc-by-sa]

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][cc-by-sa].

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-image]][cc-by-sa]

[cc-by-sa]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[cc-by-sa-image]: https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-sa-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg

## Dev Tips

This project is built on React-Native. To run a dev build, connect to an
android device or emulator and run:

```
npx expo run:android
```

To build an APK for release,

```
cd android
./gradlew assembleRelease
```

The built APK will be at `android/app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release.apk`

Commit message:

update readme with some notes

README.md, after:

# HassMic (The App)

This is the HassMic app, an Android application designed to run on devices
acting as Home Assistant voice assistant satellites.

It is meant to pair with the [HassMic
Integration](http://github.com/jeffc/hassmic-integration).

[**Latest dev commit APK**](https://f001.backblazeb2.com/file/jeffcooper-public-bucket/hassmic-artifacts/by-branch/hassmic-dev.apk) (no guarantee of functionality, takes about 10 minutes from commit time to availability)

It is currently in active development and probably has lots of bugs. Some
highlights:

-   Automatically starting on Android 12+ fails in an annoying way: the service
    auto-starts, but can't access the microphone. This is a security feature
    added to Android that I don't have a great solution for (no auto-start
    services can access the microphone unless they also start a UI).
-   There's not really a "UI" to speak of. Opening the app gives some diagnostic
    information and a single toggle switch. You **must** enable running in the
    background, since that's where all the work happens. If running in the
    background isn't enabled, the app does nothing.

## License

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-shield]][cc-by-sa]

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][cc-by-sa].

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-image]][cc-by-sa]

[cc-by-sa]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[cc-by-sa-image]: https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-sa-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg

## Dev Tips

This project is built on React-Native, but uses a substantial amount of native
code. Using `npx expo run:android` _might_ work, but isn't officially supported.

To build an APK use,

```
cd android
./gradlew assembleRelease
```

The built APK will be at `android/app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release.apk`

You can also use `installRelease` instead of `assembleRelease` to install the
built package to a device connected via adb.

## Protocol Notes

The HassMic client and server communicate using a slightly strange paradigm
based on protocol buffers (defined in the `proto/` directory). The server sends
`ServerMessage` messages to the client, and the client sends `ClientMessage`s
to the server. Because of a strange bug that I never quite got to the bottom of
with sending raw binary data back and forth, these protos are marshalled to
their binary forms and then base64-encoded, and sent over the wire as
newline-separated strings. There is no handshaking involved; client messages and
server messages are handled by separate threads on both ends. The client also
sends a periodic `ping` to let the server know it's still connected, even if
it's not sending audio data.

The protocol name `Cheyenne` is an outdated pun -- in early versions of Hassmic,
the protocol was based around the core of the Wyoming protocol. It has since
been rewritten and no longer resembles Wyoming, but for the moment the name
persists.
